Configure Python client with environment variables. (#3114)
OpenLineage/OpenLineage: website/docs/client/python.md

If you are using Airflow integration, there are additional [environment variables available](../integrations/airflow/usage.md#environment-variables).

#### Dynamic configuration with environment variables

You can also configure the client with dynamic environment variables.
Environment variables that configure the OpenLineage client follow a specific pattern. All variables that affect the client configuration start with the prefix `OPENLINEAGE__`, followed by nested keys separated by double underscores (`__`).

> ##### Key Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Key Characteristics
```

1. Prefix Requirement: All environment variables must begin with `OPENLINEAGE__`.
2. Sections Separation: Configuration sections are separated using double underscores `__` to form the hierarchy.
3. Lowercase Conversion: Environment variable values are automatically converted to lowercase.
4. JSON String Support: You can pass a JSON string at any level of the configuration hierarchy, which will be merged into the final configuration structure.

> 5. Hyphen Restriction: You cannot use `-` in environment variable names. If a name strictly requires a hyphen, use a JSON string as the value of the environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Hyphen Restriction: Since environment variable names cannot contain `-` (hyphen), if a name strictly requires a hyphen, use a JSON string as the value of the environment variable.
```

6. Precedence Rules:
* Top-level keys have precedence and will not be overwritten by more nested entries.
* For example, `OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT='{..}'` will not have its keys overwritten by `OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__AUTH__KEY='key'`.

##### Dynamic Alias for Transport Variables

To facilitate easier management of environment variables, aliases are dynamically created for certain variables like `OPENLINEAGE_URL`. If `OPENLINEAGE_URL` is set, it automatically translates into specific transport configurations
that can be used with Composite transport with `default_http` as the name of the HTTP transport.

Alias rules are following:

> * If `OPENLINEAGE_URL` is set, it would insert following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If env variable `OPENLINEAGE_URL`="http://example.com" is set, it would insert following environment variables:
```

```sh
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__DEFAULT_HTTP__TYPE="http"
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__DEFAULT_HTTP__URL="http://example.com"
```

> * Additionally if `OPENLINEAGE_API_KEY` is also provider, it will be similarly translated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Similarly if env variable `OPENLINEAGE_API_KEY`="random_key" is set, it will be translated to:
```

```sh
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__DEFAULT_HTTP__AUTH='{"type": "api_key", "apiKey": "random_key"}'
```

> or equally with `OPENLINEAGE_ENDPOINT`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
equally with env variable `OPENLINEAGE_ENDPOINT`="api/v1/lineage", that translates to:
```

```sh
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__DEFAULT_HTTP__ENDPOINT="api/v1/lineage"
```
* If one does not want to use aliased HTTP transport in Composite Transport, they can set `OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__DEFAULT_HTTP` to `{}`.

#### Examples

<Tabs groupId="configs">
<TabItem value="basic" label="Basic Example">

Setting following environment variables:

```sh
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TYPE=http
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__URL=http://localhost:5050
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__ENDPOINT=/api/v1/lineage
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__AUTH='{"type":"api_key", "apiKey":"random_token"}'
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__COMPRESSION=gzip
```

is equivalent to passing following YAML configuration:
```yaml
transport:
  type: http
  url: http://localhost:5050
  endpoint: api/v1/lineage
  auth:
    type: api_key
    apiKey: random_token
  compression: gzip
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="composite" label="Composite Example">

Setting following environment variables:

```sh
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TYPE=composite
OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__FIRST__TYPE=http

> OPENLINEAGE__TRANSPORT__TRANSPORTS__FIRST__TYPE=http

Reviewer: Duplicated line
